Add devcenter config doc (#89)
moderneinc/moderne-docs: administrator-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/dev-center.md

# Configuring the Moderne DevCenter

The Moderne DevCenter is the mission-control dashboard of the Moderne Platform. It provides you with high-level details about the state of all of your repositories. Using it, you can track the progress of upgrades, migrations, and security vulnerabilities. You can also use it to view [key visualizations](/user-documentation/moderne-platform/getting-started/visualizations.md) you care about – such as a dependency graph or a SQL operation usage chart.

In this doc, we'll walk you through everything you need to know to configure your own DevCenter.

## Prerequisites

In order to configure any DevCenters, there are two things you need to do (which we'll walk through in more detail below):

1. You must have [configured an Organizations service](./organizations-service.md).

> 2. You must ensure that the [Moderne agent Maven configuration](/administrator-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/agent-configuration/configure-an-agent-with-maven-repository-access.md) only has **one** entry where the recipe source is set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You must ensure that the [Moderne agent Maven configuration](/administrator-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/agent-configuration/configure-an-agent-with-maven-repository-access.md) only has **one** entry where the recipe source is set to `true`. (Note: this does not apply to one Maven repository configured identically in multiple agents. Only that you cannot have two distinct Maven repositories configured where recipe source is set to `true`.)
```

### Moderne agent Maven configuration

In order for the DevCenter to function correctly, the agent needs to be configured with details about a Maven repository it can use to store and access recipe JARs from.

If you have not configured the Moderne agent with Maven repository access before, please follow [the instructions in our Moderne agent Maven configuration documentation](/administrator-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/agent-configuration/configure-an-agent-with-maven-repository-access.md) to add **one** entry with recipe source set to `true`.

If you have already configured the Moderne agent with Maven repository access, then you need to ensure that only _one_ has the configuration of `MODERNE_AGENT_MAVEN_{index}_RECIPESOURCE` / `moderne.agent.maven[{index}].recipeSource` set to `true`. 

> If you have multiple locations where recipes are stored, you will need to create a virtual repository that wraps all of the locations where recipes can be stored. You will also need to ensure that the virtual repository points to the following four repositories (alongside the other repositories where recipe artifacts are stored):

Reviewer: For later: we can maybe explain how to do that in Artifactory and Nexus.

If you've created an Organizations service prior to March 2024, you will need to copy the [new DevCenterDataFetcher file](TODO LINK WHEN READY) to your Organizations service repository. It will go in the same location as the other source classes such as [Application.java](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/java/io/moderne/organizations/Application.java).

If you've created an Organizations service after March 2024, please ensure that you have a `DevCenterDataFetcher.java` file in your Organizations service repository before moving on to step 2.

## Step 2: Ensure you have an up-to-date `moderne-organizations.graphqls` schema

Similar to the previous step, please double-check your [moderne-organizations.graphqls file](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/resources/schema/moderne-organizations.graphqls) and ensure that there is a `devCenter` field in the `Organization` object:

```graphql
type Organization {
    id: ID!
    name: String!

    """
    Ordered list of commit options as they should appear in the UI.
    """
    commitOptions: [CommitOption!]!

    parent: Organization

    devCenter: DevCenter
}
```

> The [DevCenter object](TODO LINK WHEN READY) is the schema you need to follow in the below step to configure your DevCenter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [DevCenter object](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/resources/devcenter.json) is the schema you need to follow in the below step to configure your DevCenter.
```

> The [DevCenter object](TODO LINK WHEN READY) is the schema you need to follow in the below step to configure your DevCenter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [DevCenter object](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/resources/schema/moderne-organizations.graphqls#L50-L65) is the schema you need to follow in the below step to configure your DevCenter.
```

> ## Step 3: Create and configure the DevCenter

Reviewer: They will also need to run the graphql generate tasks to get the types, e.g. [DevCenter](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/pull/61/files#diff-5e9d47c60e3585a5f33205fb5367fa474776265d832cf0d1acab8dec9278550a)

Reviewer: `./gradlew generateGraphqlJava copyGeneratedGraphql` will generate all the types they need.

Of course, only applicable if they're using our template.

> Your service must fulfill the [GraphQL contract mentioned in the previous step](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/resources/schema/moderne-organizations.graphqls). If you chose to use [our template repository](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations) for your Organizations service, all you will need to do is to create and configure your own [devcenter.json file](TODO ADD LINK WHEN READY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your service must fulfill the [GraphQL contract mentioned in the previous step](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/resources/schema/moderne-organizations.graphqls). If you chose to use [our template repository](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations) for your Organizations service, all you will need to do is to create and configure your own [devcenter.json file](https://github.com/moderneinc/moderne-organizations/blob/main/src/main/resources/devcenter.json).
```

{% hint style="success" %}
When creating a DevCenter for the first time, we **strongly recommend** that you only create a DevCenter for a few key organizations. This will allow you to get data into the platform faster and ensure that you've configured everything correctly. Once everything is working as expected, you can then add more DevCenters as desired.
{% endhint %}

### Upgrade and migration cards

Upgrade and migration cards allow you to see things like what Java version your repositories use, what version of Spring Boot they're on, or what JUnit version they use:

![](/.gitbook/assets/migration-card.png)

To create these cards, you will need three things:

TODO: ADD LINKS TO THE BELOW BULLETS

1. A relevant title for the card (e.g., `Spring Boot 3.2`)
2. A recipe that can be run to fix the core issue the card is highlighting (e.g., `org.openrewrite.java.spring.boot3.UpgradeSpringBoot_3_2`)
3. Some measures that break up the card into key categories and help your users determine a level of urgency. 

#### Measures

> Each measure consists of a name and a recipe that can be used to determine whether or not a repository falls into said measure. This recipe _should not_ be the same recipe as the one used to "fix" the card. For instance, in a `Spring Boot 3.2` card, one measure might have a name of `Major` – which represents all repositories that are one or more major versions behind. The corresponding recipe would be `org.openrewrite.java.dependencies.DependencyInsight` and it would include the options of `1-2`. This would mark all repositories that use Spring Boot version `1.x` or `2.x` as being a major version or more behind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each measure consists of a name and a recipe that can be used to determine whether or not a repository falls into said measure. We do not recommend that this recipe be the same recipe as the one used to "fix" the card. For instance, in a `Spring Boot 3.2` card, one measure might have a name of `Major` – which represents all repositories that are one or more major versions behind. The corresponding recipe would be `org.openrewrite.java.dependencies.DependencyInsight` and it would include the options of `1-2`. This would mark all repositories that use Spring Boot version `1.x` or `2.x` as being a major version or more behind.
```

I don't think it's necessary to tell them they *can't* use the same recipe as the fix recipe, but we recommend they use different measures so they can see the urgency of the changes required.

Each card can have up to **three measures**. These measures should be returned in a specific order; with the most urgent being returned first and the least urgent being returned last. In the `Spring Boot 3.2` example, you might have: `Major`, `Minor`, and `Patch` returned in that specific order.

When determining what repositories fall into what measure, Moderne will first check all repositories against the most urgent measure. If any of them are marked by that first recipe, they will be added to that measure and not checked again. The second most urgent measure will then be checked, and the same thing will happen. Lastly the third most urgent measure will be checked. If any repositories have no results for _all_ of the measures, they are considered to be "Completed" and will be marked as such on the card.

{% hint style="warning" %}
If you change any part of any measure on a card (such as the name of the measure or what recipe it should run), you will lose all results for the card until the next rebuild of the DevCenter.
{% endhint %}

#### Example

<details>

<summary>
Below is an example of an upgradesAndMigrations section for a Spring Boot 3.2 card:

> </summary>

Reviewer: For later: we're going to want a document with a catalog of recommended measures for various upgrades and migrations.
